# loanprediction
Predict Loan Eligibility for Dream Housing Finance company Dream Housing Finance company deals in all kinds of home loans. They have presence across all urban, semi urban and rural areas. Customer first applies for home loan and after that company validates the customer eligibility for loan.  Company wants to automate the loan eligibility process (real time) based on customer detail provided while filling online application form. These details are Gender, Marital Status, Education, Number of Dependents, Income, Loan Amount, Credit History and others. To automate this process, they have provided a dataset to identify the customers segments that are eligible for loan amount so that they can specifically target these customers. 
Link - https://datahack.analyticsvidhya.com/contest/practice-problem-loan-prediction-iii/#LeaderBoard


Conclusion - 
  We successfully implemented logistic regression as our predictive model to predict loan defaults for an HFC by analyzing online loan applications. We utilized the CRISP-DM industrial standard to implement our model. The model was able to predict loan defaults with superior accuracy of 84% using the SMOTE sampling technique. Further analysis of the model suggested, credit history, marriage, applicant income, co-applicant income, loan amount, loan tenure to be the most decisive factors in granting of mortgage.
  The COVID-19 pandemic led to a lack of capital availability among many individuals and ultimately impacting many businesses. Among them, the mortgage and real estate businesses were highly impacted as buying and selling houses was the last thing on the minds of consumer leading to a slump in housing prices and interest rates. Therefore, when the business is already facing difficulty, risking essential capital as loans is can lead to devastating effects on the companies bottom-line.To analyze customers at their initial application stages and eliminate any risks in of utmost importance. 
  Secondly, due to cut-throat competition among peers, loosing opportunities is also not favorable to the business. Hence, implementation of predictive analytic systems is inevitable. Therefore, such model can improve efficiency for the business and minimize risks. Further, periodically evaluating the model and fine-tuning the model with additional records can make the model in a more generalized form, ultimately influencing the business bottom line.
